---
layout: post
title: "Minimum Spanning Tree Note"
date: 2014-04-01
timestamp: "2014-04-01 18:35:55 scinart"
categories: acm
tag: note
comments: true
toc: false
cc: "by-nc-sa"

---

Let *A* be a subset of some minimum spanning tree.

if after adding an edge e to A, A is still a subset of some minimum spanning tree, we say thay e is **safe** to A.

<pre class="prettyprint linenums lang-html"><code>Generic-MST
  A = Φ
  while A does not form a spanning tree
    find an edge that is safe for A
    add such edge to A
  return A
</code></pre>

Can we find an edge in Line 4? Since we maintain A as a subset of some minimum spanning tree, we certainly can find one.

Let **A** be a set of **edges**  
A **cut** (S, V-S) is a partition of V  
A cut **respects** A if no edges in A **crosses the cut**  
Of any edge crossing the cut, the minimum one is call the **light edge**

A light edge is safe, because if not(a.k.a., A ∪ edge isn't a subset of any MST. a.k.a., edge is not in any MST that A is a subset of), we can replace what crosses the cut with the light edge in any (you pick one) MST that A is a subset of. Thus we made another minimum (or minimer) spanning tree (which our contradiction claims it doesn't exist.) that consists A and the light edge.

Ultimately, any light edge is safe, so Kruskal's and Prim's algorithm is trivially true.

Kruskal's Algorithm.

<p>
Choose globally minimum edge(E) (not been chosen yet) that doesn't form a circle. E connect two Components(C1, C2) of A. Let the cut be ( S={v|v at e where e ∈ C1}, V-S). The cut must respect A, because if not, then at the time we chose E we colud see a circle. And since E is globally minimum, E is certainly the minimum edge crossing the cut, a.k.a. a light edge.
</p>

Prim's Algorithm.

Always cut the graph into what we have and what we have not, then choose the minimum edge crossing the cut, a.k.a. a light edge.


Problem 23-4:

<pre class="prettyprint linenums lang-html"><code>YA-Generic-MST
  A = E
  while A does not form a spanning tree
    find an edge that is SAFE for A
    remove such edge to A
  return A
</code></pre>

where SAFE is the capitalizd safe, which means basically the same thing.

Let A be a superset of some MST, if after removing edge E, A is still a superset of some MST, then we say E is **SAFE** to A.

we say a cut **RESPECT** A, if ≥2 edges in A are crossing the cut.

Of any cut **RESPECT** A, the non-smallest edge(E) crossing the cut is **SAFE** to A. if not(a.k.a., All of the MST that A is a superset of has edge E), we choose any MST that is a subset of A, that MST does have edge E. Using the cut and paste method to replace E with the smallest one would easily deduce an conflict. Hence E is SAFE.

* MAYBE-MST-A

this is trivially true, because line 4 indicates there is a circle which hase edge e.

* MAYBE-MST-B

this is trivially wrong, because this one returns arbitrary spanning tree.

* MAYBE-MST-C

  this is true.

  * First we prove after the procedure return, only V-1 edges are left in V.

  If there are more edges, there must be a circle, which contradicts the loop invariant.

  If there are less edges, then T is not connected. When a edge that is supposed to connect the to component of T is selected in line 2, It has only one reason why it isn't in T, which is avoiding a circle, which indicates the two component are connected, which results to a contradiction.

  * Second

  Let A be E, let S be E-T. and we consistently remove edges in S from A, when we prove each removal is SAFE, we form a MST that is the same as T.

  Because each removal is to remove an edge in a circle, thus there must exist a cut that cut thought this circle. so this cut RESPECT A. so each removal is safe.

<hidden>
真是看懂了就懒着写note, CLRS写的这么清楚真心不容易啊。
</hidden>
